us defense secretary Lloyd Austin says
the White House paused a large shipment
of bombs to Israel he said the decision
was due to opposition to Israel's plans
to assault Rafa in southern Gaza Austin
told a US Senate hearing the Biden
Administration was concerned about
Israel launching a major offensive in
Rafa without a plan to protect civilians
there meanwhile Israel continues to
bombard the city the Army says it's
conducting a limited operation to kill
Hamas Fighters and dismantle the group's
remaining
infrastructure here's more from the US
defense secretary as he addressed that
Senate
hearing so we we've been very clear
Senator as you know from the very
beginning that um that Israel shouldn't
launch a a major attack in arafa without
accounting for uh and protecting the
civilians that are in that battle space
uh and and again as we have uh assessed
the situation
uh we paused one shipment of high high
uh payload Munitions um and U and again
I I think we've also been very clear
about U the steps that we'd like to see
uh uh Israel take to to account for and
take care of those civilians before uh
major combat uh takes place we certainly
would like to see no major combat take
place in Rafa but uh but certainly our
focus is on making sure that we protect
the civilians
and we again we've not made a final
determination on how to proceed with the
uh with that shipment Let's cross over
to our correspondent Benjamin Alvarez in
Washington DC Benjamin good to see you
again now we heard the US defense Chief
there what else has the Biden
Administration said about the whole
matter the state department vo what it
call is a very serious concern over a
widespread rough operation and what that
would mean for the civilian population
there spokesperson Matthew Miller said
this was made clear with their Israeli
counterparts on several level and the
state department said it passed one
shipment of military assistant and is
reviewing others while also adding quite
similar to what we just heard from
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin there
that the long-term commitment to Israel
has not changed so definitely in line
also with those remarks saying that the
US will continue to ensure what he calls
is Israel's means to defend itself so
that's also what his secretary of
defense Lloyd Austin said that comes as
a time where a high stake report is
looming over the White House over
President Biden on whether Israel has
violated International humanitarian law
during its war in Gaza a report that has
led to intense debates for months across
the administration and and has even led
to divisions inside the state department
but the state department already said
that it will not meet today so
Wednesday's deadline to send this report
to Congress saying whether the US
administrations find the assurances by
the Israeli government credible and
reliable and the spokesperson today only
spoke about a brief delay without giving
an exact data for the publishment of
this highly anticipated report what does
this move tell us about the US
commitment to Israel and its goals in
the
war this new decision is the latest sign
of a growing Rift between both
governments but there has been a number
of of of allies in Biden's Democratic
party in Congress that have for weeks
and month have urged him to limit or
hold arms shipments to Israel something
that he has refused to do until now and
the fact that the Washington finally did
so shows how big the frustration is
among the administrations in Washington
here that the Israeli counterparts are
not hearing the warnings about the us
against a major operation in raffer many
are applauding this move saying that the
US is finally using its leverage as the
biggest arms exporter to Israel that was
DW correspondent Benjamin alvarus in
Washington thank you so much
hjob Schindler is the senior director of
the counter extremism project and joins
us now from New York welcome back to DW
do you think Israel can achieve its goal
of dismantling Hamas through an assault
on
Rafa thank you so much for having me
unfortunately the sad truth is that
without some kind of military operation
in Rafa it will be impossible for uh the
dismantling or at least the more or less
long-term removal of Hamas as an ongoing
terrorist concern in Rafa at the moment
the leadership in Gaza Strip of Hamas is
located there are still some deports
there there's still a very active panel
Network there there have been attacks
out of Rafa against Israeli forces
including uh border crossing so yes
unfortunately some type of military
operation needs to be conducted in Rafa
and the spat between the US and the
Israeli government is not on the if it's
on the how this military operation
supposed to be conducted M 7 months
after October 7th to what extent um as
far as you're concerned has Israel been
able to diminish hamas's
capabilities oh the Israeli government
has significantly di diminished hamas's
physical capabilities so the tunnel
Network in other parts of Gaza are
pretty much destroyed they did arrest
and eliminate quite a large number of
Palestinian Hamas Fighters they were
able to get some of the hostages out
through negotiations very handful but
that's to be expected via military
operations only but if the leaders are
staying intact if there is a part of the
tunnel Network that stays intact if
there are some functioning Hamas
military units which are now
concentrated in Rafa the time for Hamas
to reconstitute itself as a major
terrorist threat to Israel is really
diminished which essentially means all
that Hamas has to do is to survive in
order to win this
country the kind of elimin ating that
possibility of Hamas surviving is what
Israel has set out to do but looking at
it more long term How likely is you know
the suffering the death the destruction
that we've seen in Gaza uh since this
military operation was launched to fuel
further anti-israeli sentiment and
extremism in the region that then could
could backfire against Israeli security
interests once
more yeah I mean unfortunately it's
really clear that the competing aim of
eliminating Hamas as a terrorist concern
you cannot eliminate an ideology of
course and freeing the hostages are
really in somewhat of a contradiction
because the hostages are the survival
guarantee for the Hamas leadership so I
doubt that they would ever be willing to
give up even all of the hostages um
unless there is some kind of an
agreement that the leadership is allowed
to leave with their heads attached from
Gaza the problem with the suffering is
Hamas is causing this extremely
deliberately it is part of the Hamas
strategy from the beginning of this
conflict from the 7th of October to
highlight the suffering that is caused
by the military conflict as much as
possible in order to increase the
political pressure on Israel to stop
military operations before its physical
Terror in infrastructure and its
leadership is completely incapable of
operating again so it's part of the
Hamas strategy um but if Israel would
stop before harfa is concern is is dealt
with then there would be a major major
problem um as far as the terrorist
threat from Hamas in the near future so
unfortunately the Israeli government is
between a rock and a hard place here
let's look at the how then if and as you
say this this operation is inevitable to
to reach the goal um that Israel has
here the US has ramped up pressure on
Israel by halting arms deliveries or one
of their deliveries how does that impact
Israel's position in Gaza as well as in
Cairo where ceasefire negotiations are
underway well first of all it's
important to understand that when the
big deal was signed that also had the
billions for Ukraine there were $680
million US dollar for Israel Aid
including humanitarian aid but also
weapons that deal is untouched what they
have paused is the delivery of very
large ordinance 2,000 pound bombs and
equipment that make dumb bombs into
smart bombs also of the larger variety
something that you really shouldn't use
in a dense urban area like Raa if you do
a military operation there to eliminate
terrorist organization so it is a very
much a clear political signal because
it's very unusual for the US
Administration to hold arms deliveries
to Major allies beat Ukraine or beat
Israel so it's a very clear political
signal militarily for the way that the
Americans want this um operation to be
conducted very targeted very very
careful um with extreme care for any
collateral damage that may be caused you
wouldn't need those bombs in any
case so where does that leave Israel
then in the negotiations in
Cairo well Hamas has made a very smart
move in in its public propaganda with
accepting 80 um the problem is that the
deal that Hamas accepted was not the
deal that the Israel is prior if you
remember this steal has been banking
around for a while um priorly accepted
so they added some Clauses of course
it's easy to basically say I accept the
deal that I rewrote so that it fits my
needs but in the negotiations both sides
need to be able to agree to the all of
the provisions in the deal not just some
of the provisions and so we are still in
this back and forth phase but
very skillfully Hamas has now batted the
ball back into the Israeli court and
makes it harder for the Israeli
government now to argue because of
course the details of the deals cannot
be made public in a negotiations like
this that now this deal has changed and
they have to renegotiate but the
negotiations are still ongoing there is
an Israeli delegation in Cairo as we
speak so we're not at the end of the
process but it was a quite smart public
relations move by Hamas what do you
think a deal could look like because as
you say Hamas has agreed to something
that is a non-starter for Israel yet the
White House says that there is some
light at the end of the tunnel that a
deal could be within
reach yes I mean there certainly we've
seen that a deal is generally possible
fairly soon after uh the war of Hamas
against Israel started when hostages
were released now even at the time it
was clear the next round is going to be
much much harder because we are now
talking primarily about Military
Officers and soldiers of the Israelis um
and of course as I said Hamas will hold
back some of the hostages um to
guarantee the survivability at least of
its key leaders zva and Dave in Gaza
that's pretty clear now so what is
achievable is that hopefully the
majority of the remaining hostages will
be relieved against the release of some
Palestinian prisoners and Israel has
been quite flexible on that point how
many prisoners what type of crimes these
prisoners are accused of in in the
negotiations the last couple of weeks
however all of the hostages in one go I
really doubt that as I said it is the
survival guarantee for the Hamas
leadership so some will unfortunately
very likely stay back fascinating
insights our security expert Hans yakob
shinda thank you so much for your
input thank you so much